Hey, guys, what's up?
This is a marathon, and I welcome you to another tutorial on this course on Ruby.
And in this tutorial, we are going to be covering Mattocks.
Now, you'll often come across a piece of code that needs to be executed many times in a single program.
Now, instead of writing that piece of code over and over again, there's a feature in most programming
languages that is called a procedure.
Now, this procedure is going to allow you to extract the common goal to a single place.
Now, in Ruby, we call it a method.
Now, to declare a method, you have a certain procedure that is written right in front of you now to
define a function, you have to use a d e f g word that is Beldin.
And whenever you want to define a function, you have to use this key word def and you're Adam runner
is Adam is automatically going to detect that.
It is basically a function which you are defining right now after the def you have to write in the name
of the function.
Now in here you can see that we have found Cunnamulla here.
Now you can use any kind of name you want to.
It is never bound to use a specific name.
You can use whatever you want to use.
Then inside that def name, you can write in any number of lines of code.
And after you have written your code, just click, enter, move outside the block and just write in.
And now any piece of code that is written in between the def and and blog is going to be consider the
piece of code for that specific function.
Now, how are you supposed to run that good, which is in a function now to call a function, you can
just write in the name of the function and the wrong brackets, and it is automatically going to call
that function.
And by calling a function, it means that every line of code in between the block of that function is
going to get executed.
Then we can also pass arguments to a function to pass arguments to a function, you have to just write
in the value of the arguments in the wrong brackets that are in front of the function name, and then
you can use that value, whatever has been passed inside the function and to pass the value from the
calling area.
You can write in the name of the function, as you can see down here, and you can have the values written
here that are going to be passed on to this function here.
We are going to have some variables in which those values are going to be stored and after that you
can just simply use those value in this block of code.
So that's how you can also pass the values to a function.
Now, a function can also return a certain value, which you can just print out or you can just store
it in a certain variable.
Now, as you can see over here that we are calling a function and we are using quotes over here.
You can also write in X equal to Nameable Hill.
And inside that, as you can see, that we have read and written Halloa, Not Halloa, etc..
Ruby.
What it's going to do is that it is going to return hello Ruby to this func name and whatever we have
written over here since in this case we have written books.
So whatever value is going to be written from this function, it is going to be printed on your screen.
So if you just write a variable X equal to one name and it is going to be stored in the variable X and
you can use it outside the function then.
So that's how you can also return the values from a function as well.
So let's just see some example of whatever we have been talking so far, so let's move on to our editor,
Adam.
So starting on from how functions are going to be, define what you can do as just writing DCF on your
screens and when you write in, the effort is going to change its color, which means that it is something.
And then you have to write in the name of the functions function, as I told you.
So I'm going to use, let's say, function, name, just click, enter.
And as you can see, that it has automatically moved ahead.
Which means that a block has been started automatically.
Now you can use in, let's say, bullets and let's say I want to write in my name, just click, enter,
click a backspace to move out of this function block and just write in.
And now this is basically the core of the function.
And to use this, what you can do is that you can just write in func.
And name and just specify the wrong brackets, run this code.
And as you can see, that it is processing and as you can see that the output has been printed, which
is saying my name, which is on.
So as you have seen, that it has printed whatever was in the block of code in this function.
So when this rally was called in, it called this function now.
Always remember that the code is executed in a sequential order.
Now, when the execution starts, it's check the first line.
But since it was a function.
So he just ignored it and it moved out, but it moved out.
It found nothing.
On line number four.
On line number five, it saw that it has a certain kind of a function which is going to be called.
So it already has sort function since it was at line one, before it was at line five.
So at the start, it has stored in its memory that we have a function that is named as bank name and
it has to call it.
So when we write in func Namoa here, it just call that function.
And Omar was executed.
And so it is right here on your brother.
So if you call the function from right at the top here.
And let's just remove it from here, run this code, and as you can see, that it has generated an error
message that says undefined method, func name.
Now, why this error message is generated?
Because in the previous case, we have called the function from down here.
Now, since it is going to follow a sequential order.
So according to the sequence, it found def func name on the first line in our previous case, for example,
if I just remove it from here.
So func name is on the first line.
So it's stored in its memory that we have a function that is named as func name.
So when we called it from here on the line number six, it already had in its memory a fake name.
So it is going to call it.
But when you define the funk name right at the top here on the first line, then it is going to execute
this statement actually.
But since it is on the very first line, so it does not know that a funk function that is named as funk
name even exists or not.
So it has generated an error message that says undefined method name as funk name.
So always remember that when you are defining a function and calling a function, the calling is going
to be done always after the function has been defined because of the very same reason that is, since
a function follows any number, any line of code follows basically a sequential order.
So a function also follows that.
And to call a function, you have to first define it before that.
So moving on to the second part of this tutorial that is about arguments, so how can a function basically
accept parameters?
So to do so, what do you have to do is that you have to specify brackets, Sohel, and you have to
write in a certain number of arguments over here.
So let's say I don't want this here anymore.
And what I want is that it's just printed for so that this error message is removed.
And now, as you can see that if I just remove it from here.
And let's say I want to pass my name right from here into this function.
So this part where we are calling the function, we have to basically specify the values.
So you can just write and let's say Americano here.
And when I want to pass it over here to this function name, I have to write a variable, any variable
right over here.
So let's say I just write a name or here.
So name is basically going to now store this value, because when the function is going to be called
with a parameter, it is going to check for any function that is named as func name.
And it also receive one argument.
So it is going to search and since it already has in its memory, this function sends a sequential order
is followed and it already had stored this func name with a parameter.
So it is going to call that function.
And this value over here is basically going to be stored in this variable we have defined right here.
So name is going to be stored right here.
So now this name can be used right here.
So if you just write a name Oakhill.
Run the school and you can see that Americanist printed right here on my screen, so there's value as
a dollar is stored in this and now you can use it inside the function block.
So when I write in Namoa here, my name is going to be printed right here.
So in a similar way, you can pass in multiple arguments.
Let's say I want to pass in a value one as well.
So for that, you have to specify a variable over here as well.
Let's say X is the variable and now you can just write inputs or here around this code.
And as you can see, that Omarion and one are printed right here.
So you can pass in any number of arguments and you can pass in any data type of argument at this.
OHAYON So that's how basically you can pass in arguments and that's how parameters are going to be accepted
by a function as well.
Now, there is one thing you need to know here is that you can just remove these brackets from here
because these are what is optional.
You can just specify the arguments like this.
Let's just go on with a single argument.
So let's just remove it from this code.
And you can see that it says undefined local variable.
Yes, because X is now no more a part of this.
So let's just remove it, run this code.
And as you can see, that my name is printed right over here.
So these basically parenthesis are optional.
You can just specify a space and then you can specify the argument, which you have to pass into the
function.
You can just remove it from here as well, and you can just remove it from here as well.
And you can just have a string over here.
Let's let it be name and run the score.
And you can see that you have got name right or well.
So these brackets as a W are basically optional and you can just remove them if you want to.
But the best practice is to use them so that your code as a bit of a more organized.
Now the third part of this tutorial is about how to return a value from a function.
Now, let's say we have this name right over here, so we don't want that to be printed right here.
We want that value to be written outside the function to this area.
And we want to use it, let's say, somewhere else.
So, for example, I have a value X equal to func name.
And let's just specify the brackets so that it looks more beautiful and what we are going to do is that
we are going to just write in written and we are going to write in name.
Now, whenever a function has a written statement and whatever is written in front of this, it is going
to return that value right down to the calling area where the function is called.
And if it has a variable in which it want to store it, it is going to store in a variable and then
you can use that variable downhill.
So if I just run this code, you can see that name is printed right on the screen because X now contains
this name and you can now use them.
For instance, if you don't return a value, then you can not use that value.
For example, if I have, let's say, some value right over here and I want to use it down here, then
that cannot be used.
And that is a part of the, I guess next to next tutorial in which we will be discussing the scope of
a variable in a function.
Now, in the written statement, we have got one more concept, that is the optional written statements,
not the written statement is admitted in the function will return the last evaluated expression.
So, for example, let's say pass in something like a value from here.
Let's say that value is my name and that is going to be received right here.
And let's say I don't specify this written statement over here and I just write in.
Hello, and then I specify this will help, and I just write in the name of Wilhelm.
So this is basically interpellation.
So when I run this code now, you can see that it has printed hello mail here.
Now, what is going on actually is that this value is going to be passed into this function.
Hello, and you can see that interpellation as usual.
Hello, America is going to be printed, but how that comes out in this very X because we haven't used
any kind of written statement of help, I was told you that if you don't specify the written statement
and you are using the concept of written statement of our heroes, you can see that you are storing
a value, this value here, whatever is going to be returned to this function in the variable X, but
that is not possible because we have not used their written statement over here.
But what we really do is that to avoid the errors, what to do is that it written the latest expression
that is evaluated in the function to this func nameable here.
It is going to be stored in this variable and that is going to be printed out.
For example, if you have, let's say, a statement.
Hello, let's say John Oakhill, I run the score and as you can see that now, it has printed Hello,
John, over here because now hello, John is the last statement that is executed by this function funk
name.
So as a told you that a sequential order is followed.
So that's why hello, John is going to be the last statement that is going to be executed by this function.
So let me call this function.
We want to read what we want this function to return to value and store it in this variable X.
So when it don't find any kind of written statement, what it's going to do is that it is going to write
down the value of the last expression that is evaluated.
For example, we have a written statement and after that we also have got a statement that is Hello
John over here and Niver underscore that is going to return Hello America here.
Because since we have the written statement, if we have the written statement, even then, if you
have some go to war here, it is going to just ignore that it is going to return this value to us with
which we have got our written statement.
So I hope that you have understood it.
Then there is one more concept about function.
That is the default argument values.
Now, for example, you are passing in a value over here and you have got a variable here, then it
is going to run very smoothly.
According to the previous concept I have explained about the arguments that are going to be passed into
the function.
But let's say we are receiving an argument here, but we don't pass any kind of value here, so let's
just remove it for now.
And let's just use the statement, Oakhill.
And let's just remember this as well, it's just right in.
The name of the function.
All right, so as you can see that I am calling this function, but I have not passed any kind of parameters
from here and in here, as you can see, that it is expecting that an argument is going to be received.
So if I just run this code, you can see that it simply has generated errors.
And as you can see, the error message that says wrong number of arguments.
And as you can see ahead that it says the given arguments are zero and expected arguments are won.
As you can see that the given arguments over here are zero and the expected argument is one.
So how to basically solve this problem?
For example, you have this function right over here.
In which what you want is that sometime you want to send in some data, but sometime you don't want
to send any kind of data, for example, I'm calling this function right here again.
And let's say this time I want to pass in a value.
For the third part, I don't want to pass in a value.
Then I am going to call this function again in which I want to, let's say, pass value again.
So to do this, what you have to do it.
You don't have to write in a function again and again.
For example, if there are, let's say, two more arguments here.
Well, here, let's say I've got this argument over here again, so I don't have to specify a function
with a single argument and a double argument as a function without arguments again and again.
I what I don't need three functions over here.
What I can do over here is that I can use the concept of default arguments over here, know how it is
going to be done.
Let's for this case, deal with only a single argument.
So for this function and for this function, this court is going to run very smoothly because the given
arguments are won and expected or also on.
But for this function and this function, it is going to generate this error message you can see on
the right side.
So for that, what you have to do is that you are going to specify a default value to it.
So let's say I just write in.
Something random, let's say tutorials, so whenever I call this function and I don't specify any number
of arguments, then what it is going to do is that when I don't pass an argument, it is going to treat
this as the received value and it is going to print that out.
So I just run the school.
You can see that for the functions in which I don't pass any value for the first and for the third value
in which I did not post any kind of arguments, you can see that it is printed out tutorials in place
of this name or here.
So you can see how it's headed towards here.
But in cases where I am passing some value that as a single argument and the expected argument is also
won, then in that case it is going to treat this as an argument.
So if you talk about the priority, the priority is given to the value you are passing from here.
But if you don't pass in any value to help the function that is Funt name, then it is going to treat
this as a value and it is going to use that and it is going to print that out.
So this is basically the concept of different arguments in Ruby, and this concept is very, very,
very important in cases where you have to call a function multiple times.
But sometimes you want to pass in the value, but sometimes you don't want to pass in a value.
So instead of creating that function again and again, again and again, again and again, what you
can do is that you can use this concept of default values and that is going to prove very, very, very
helpful.
So that was the introduction to functions.
You now know how to define a function, how to pass arguments to a function, how to have no brackets
and call the function, then how to return a value and how to return a value without using the written
statement.
And finally, you know about how to parse default arguments to function.
So I guess that's it with this tutorial.
Thank you so much, guys, for watching.
And I'll see you guys in the next territorial.